# Notes related to dataset
## Source: http://jse.amstat.org/v19n3/decock.pdf

### Abstract
- he data set contains 2930 observations and a large number of explanatory variables (23 nominal, 23 ordinal, 14 discrete, and 20 continuous)

### 2. The Ames Housing Data
- The large number of continuous variables in this data set should give students many opportunities to differentiate themselves as they consider various methods of using and combining the variables.
- They range from 2 to 28 classes with the smallest being STREET(gravel or paved) and the largest being NEIGHBORHOOD (areas within the Ames city limits).
- There are two variables (PIDand NEIGHBORHOOD) that may be of special interest to users of the data set. PIDis the Parcel Identification Number assigned to each property within the Ames Assessor’s system. This number can be used in conjunction with the Assessor’s Office (http://www.cityofames.org/assessor/) or Beacon (http://beacon.schneidercorp.com/) websites to directly view the records of a particular observation. The typical record will indicate the values for characteristics commonly quoted on most home flyers and will include a picture of the property.The NEIGHBORHOODvariable, typically of little interest other than to model the location effect, may be of more relevance when used with the map (http://www.amstat.org/publications/jse/v19n3/decock/AmesResidential.pdf) included in the supplementary materials.
- Potential Pitfalls (Outliers): Although all known errors were corrected in the data, no observations have been removed due to unusual values and all final residential sales from the initial data set are included in the data presented with this article. There are five observations that an instructor may wish to remove from the data set before giving it to students (a plot of SALE PRICE versus GR LIV AREA will quickly indicate these points). Three of them are true outliers (Partial Sales that likely don’t represent actual market values) and two of them are simply unusual sales (very large houses priced relatively appropriately). I would recommend removing any houses with more than 4000 square feet from the data set (which eliminates these five unusual observations) before assigning it to students.
- Helpful Hint: Although in the past I have given students free reign to create the best model possible for MODEL 2, in the future I plan to set an upper limit on the number of terms a model may contain. With the Boston Housing Data Set students would occasionally submit excessively large models (up to 27 variables including interaction terms and polynomials) and I believe this might be exacerbated with the new larger data set.

### 5. Adjustments for Lower-level Classes
- Eliminate all sales except for the “normal” from the SALES CONDITION variable. Unless an instructor specifically wants to create an activity that investigates the difference between the various types of sales (foreclosures, new homes, family sales, etc.) the different conditions will simply serve to complicate the results and confuse the students.
- Remove all homes with a living area (GR LIVE AREA) above 1500 square feet. The purpose to the second step is to alleviate problems with non-homogeneous variance. As might be expected there is increasing variation with increasing price within the Ames housing market. This problem can be remedied by taking a transformation (square root) of the sales price but those wishing to keep the response in dollars can simply use the smaller homes as they tend to show more homogeneous variation.
- Select desired observations.Although the data set could be reduced further using other variables (such as using only one story homes or eliminating homes without a basement), I would recommend drawing a simple random (or systematic) sample from the remaining “normal” sales to create the final data set.
